[Music]
every day without even thinking you do
the mundane task of taking the trash out
perhaps even multiple times well if
you're tired of the routine and more
importantly you don't want to be the
average person producing around 1,000
pounds of waste a year then switch out
some of your daily habits with these
super-easy eco-friendly alternatives
number 17 get a reusable shopping bag
did you know that plastic items can take
up to seven hundred years to decompose
sounds crazy right and one of the
biggest examples of plastic taking
forever to go away is those bags you get
each time you go to the grocery I mean
you try to do the right thing and save
them but they just pile up so quickly
that you end up throwing them away it's
way better to get into the habit of
taking a reusable cloth bag when you go
shopping they don't take up much space
and some of them have cool or funny
prints if you're crafty you can even
make one on your own
string bags or wicker bags are also
really popular right now number 16
avoid single-use cups this is a super
easy switch to make yet it'll reduce
your environmental footprint
significantly every minute around the
world 1 million disposable cups are used
and discarded and most paper cups are
unrecyclable because they're lined with
polyethylene to prevent leakage to stop
using paper cups that go straight to the
landfill carry your own personal mug
with you you can buy a fancy reusable
thermos to keep your drink warm or just
find a simple mason jar that you
probably already have in your kitchen
right now
speaking of which number 15 recycle and
reuse jars for storage and refills
every time you buy something in a jar
from the store don't just throw it away
afterwards wash it out sterilize it and
reuse it for something else those jars
are perfect for storing food in the
cupboards as well as in the fridge but
you can also use them to make your own
candles as a pen holder or a vase for
your beauty products to keep some small
objects that always get lost such as
buttons or hair pins and of course for
drinks the options are really endless
just use your imagination while we're on
the topic of drinks number fourteen
get your own reusable water bottle it
takes up to 450 years for plastic
bottles to break down so it's more
important than ever that we stop buying
bottled water and switch to reusable
alternatives take your water bottle
everywhere you go and simply ask for
ystos and waiters at cafes or
restaurants to refill it for you or you
can always fill it up yourself at a
refill station there are other ways to
reduce a number of plastic bottles in
your household which brings us to number
13 buy products in bulk
instead of getting single-use containers
how many times have you gotten in a
shower to suddenly realize you're out of
shampoo well if you start buying larger
containers it'll happen less often and
it'll help the environment the same goes
for basically everything you use on a
daily basis laundry detergent fish
liquid hair conditioner body lotion face
creams and so on some beauty brands even
sell shampoo bars and if you're into
experiments or own natural options then
you can try to make them yourself using
natural ingredients such as coconut oil
number 12
say no to plastic straws this one is
hands-down the easiest way to reduce
waste and it requires pretty much no
effort on your part it doesn't even
occur to a lot of people that they can
help out our planet just by asking cafe
or restaurant personnel not to put a
straw in their drink when ordering one
if you just can't imagine drinking
without a straw get a metal one
you can clean and reuse number 11
replace your synthetic bath sponge with
a natural one yep there are even green
options for loofahs and bath brushes try
to use natural materials like real
sponges or bamboo brushes and you'll
notice that they get your skin a lot
smoother than the synthetic kind win-win
number 10 don't throw away your food
about 1/3 of all food produced in the
world for human consumption gets lost or
wasted every year I know it's hard to
believe we're chucking out so much Chow
if you have leftovers after dinner store
them in a container to eat the next day
for lunch also plan your meals for the
next week ahead this will help you avoid
over purchasing on groceries and save
you a lot of money also pips that are
cooking more cooking from scratch will
give you a chance to dodge the plastic
packaging that comes with takeaway food
number 9 repair and reuse items before
buying new ones it's time to get handy
and creative before you buy something
new to replace an item that's broken see
if you can fix it patch that hole paint
that table or go to the tailor's or shoe
repair shop before heading to the mall
even if something is unsalvageable you
can breathe new life into it have a pair
of old jeans that still fit cut them to
make cool shorts for summer are your
towels getting a little frayed cut them
up to make cleaning cloths actually
that's also connected to the next point
number eight stop using paper towels at
home over 3,000 tons of paper towel
waste is produced in the US alone having
a box of reusable rags in your kitchen
laundry room or wherever you might
otherwise need one is a much better
alternative or of course you can cut up
old towels if you have them what's great
about these options is that you can just
throw them in the washer and use them
again
again plus microfiber cloths clean
furniture so much better than paper
towels number seven stop buying so many
new clothes the world consumes over 800
billion pieces of clothing every year I
think we can all agree on one thing
that's a little excessive instead of
trying to keep up with new trends that
digest as quickly as they pop up
consider buying second-hand clothes at
thrift or charity shops it's also
possible to get a new stylist gem
absolutely for free all you have to do
is take part in a clothing swap party
where people bring outfits from their
wardrobe they don't wear anymore
couldn't be a cool way to make friends
to number six drink loose leaf tea if
you're a tea lover then you should know
that tea bags have plastic in them so
switching from bag to loose leaf tea
will save a lot of weights start using a
teapot with an infuser and enjoy your
favorite drink plus loose leaf tea just
tastes better number five
consider eco-friendly feminine hygiene
products sanitary pads are a bigger
threat to our planet than you might
think within ten years
a woman will use around 2000 pads yet if
you switch to a more eco-friendly
menstrual cup you'll only meet just one
more and more women are making the
switch not only because they want to go
low waist but also because menstrual
cups are a lot less hassle a tampon or
pad has to be changed every few hours
while accompanies emptying only twice a
day if the cup isn't for you then you do
have other options like period underwear
or washable cotton pads number four pack
your lunch instead of eating out every
day this one requires a bit of
commitment since you'll have to prepare
your lunch beforehand every day but at
least you'll avoid all the packaging
that goes with takeaway food not to
mention all those extra calories and if
you're not on a diet and crave some junk
food don't we all then just ask the
Baker to put your Donuts cupcakes or
whatever it might be into your container
some places even give you a discount for
that
three look into rechargeable batteries
your remote isn't working again because
you forgot to buy new batteries I know
it's only like the tenth time batteries
are really bad for the environment
because of the chemicals in them well we
can't give them up completely it is
possible to make them last much longer
with rechargeable alternatives number
two reduce your junk mail let's get real
most of the stuff in your mailbox goes
straight into the trash can find out how
to reduce the amount of junk mail you
receive by contacting your bank
insurance provider and other companies
that send you mail to see whether you
can get paperless statements sent to
your email instead number one recycle
your old phone getting a new phone is
always a joy but this purchase can be
even better if you get extra money from
selling your old device to a recycling
program our gadgets contain a variety of
precious metals copper and plastics so
recycling them helps conserve these
valuable materials and the planet to do
you know any other ways to make less
waste leave your tips in the comments
below
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
Subscribe to always stay on the bright
side of life
you